All right, so with our
next example of Lambda Expressions,
we're going to start using multiple parameters
in those Lambda Expressions.
We'll continue to use the calculator example,
but for simplicity, I'm going to create
a new class called BinaryCalculator.
(mouse clicks)
(keyboard keys clack)
Right and this is almost a copy
of the previous example, the calculator,
except the BinaryIntegerOperation interface
has a method, calculate, that accepts two parameters.
And also, the Lambda Expressions
that we're creating further down
have actually got two parameters.
Everything else is pretty much the same
as what we saw in the previous videos.
If we run this now,
(mouse clicks)
can see what the values,
the numbers four and two add up to six.
The numbers four and two subtracted equals two.
For the first Lambda Expression on Line 32,
this demonstrates a typed parameter list
Parentheses are always required for multiple parameters,
and we saw the results coming back
with two values added together.
And the second one on Line 36 demonstrates
an untyped parameter list but noting
that parentheses are always required
for multiple parameters.
This time, we're not specifying the type,
unlike the the first example.
All right, so continuing on,
let's actually add two more Lambda Expressions
to the main method.
So I'm going to add them down here below the first two.
(keyboard keys clack)
And you can see that the compiler doesn't like
either of these Lambda Expressions,
the first one specifying a data type
only for the first parameter, which is not valid.
And the second one doesn't wrap
the parameters declarations in parentheses.
Parentheses are required when
the method has more than one parameter.
So let's fix these.
What I'm going to do is just comment these out
so you've got access to these
if you're downloading source code.
(keyboard keys clack)
All right, so there's the code.
Now, in the multiplication example,
note that we're using the local variable type inference
by setting type to var.
Support for var in the parameters
of Lambda Expressions was added in Java 11.
And the second example was just correctly putting
the two parameters in parentheses.
All right, just to make sure this is working,
we'll add a couple of outputs here
to call those two Lambda Expressions.
I'll run the code
(mouse clicks)
and we get the outputs for multiplied and divided,
which, of course, are the two other
Lambda Expressions we've just added.
So I've stated that Lambda Expressions
require functional interfaces to provide
a targeted method and type.
Java provides several interfaces for you
that satisfy common patterns,
and several of these are in the java.util.function package.
Can see in the first example there UnaryOperator.
The functional interface typed is DoubleUnaryOperator,
IntUnaryOperator, or LongUnaryOperator
and represents an operation on the single operand
that produces a result of the same type as its operand.
And I'm not going to read all these out now,
remembering that the slides are available to download
for you to study this in detail,
but we've basically got a BinaryOperator there,
Consumer, Predicate, Supplier, and Function.
So grab the slides if you need to or just pause the video
so you can read those for now.
Basically, you can see that the interfaces provided by Java
really cover a wide swath of functionality.
All right, so let's use one of the supplied interfaces,
the IntUnaryOperator, in our calculator class.
I'm going to go back to the calculator class,
not the binary calculator,
and what we want to do
is we're going to change our interface.
So we're no longer going to use that interface.
What we're going to do is basically remove that
from the source file now.
(mouse clicks)
(keyboard keys clack)
I'll just comment it out so it's available there.
And, obviously, we've got an error now
in our calculate method because we've removed that.
What we're going to do is change that
from the UnaryIntegerOperation
to one of those types we just saw on the slides:
the IntUnaryOperation.
(keyboard keys clack)
IntUnaryOperator, I should say.
And we're going to change this from calculate,
which no longer is a valid method.
(keyboard keys clack)
It's going to be .applyAsInt(a),
and we also need to change the types I've defined
for the three Lambda Expressions.
I'll just take a copy of IntUnaryOperator
and paste that in for each of the,
or the extra for them, all four.
We'll need to have that type updated, like so.
And, again, this is an in-built interface
that comes with Java.
So now that I've done that, I can run this,
and you can see that the results are the same as before
but this time, using the new interface.
All right, so in the last four videos including this one,
we covered the basics of Lambda Expressions.
In the next video, I want to look at some more
of the supplied functional interfaces
in the java.util.function package
as well as looking at how to apply Lambda Expressions
to collections and lists.
See you in the next video.